README.md, before:

# urp3_meshi

Two-stage conjunctival ROI segmentation utilities.

## Files
- `main.py`: CLI entry point for training and inference.
- `train.py`: training loops for Stage-1 (full eye) and Stage-2 (ROI fine-tuning).
- `datasets.py`: generic dataset loader supporting mask suffix and augmentation.
- `unet.py`: lightweight U-Net model.
- `roi_utils.py`: optional Haar cascade eye detector used during inference.

## Usage
### Stage-1 (full eye -> ROI)
```
python main.py train-stage1 \
    --img-root ConjunctivalImages \
    --mask-root ConjunctivalImages/palpebral \
    --mask-suffix _palpebral \
    --out stage1.pt
```

### Stage-2 fine-tuning (cropped ROI images)
```
python main.py finetune-stage2 \
    --img-root CP_AnemiC \
    --mask-root CP_AnemiC \
    --mask-suffix _mask \
    --ckpt stage1.pt \
    --out stage2.pt
```

### Inference on new full-eye images
```
python main.py infer \
    --img-root new_images \
    --ckpt stage2.pt \
    --use-eye-detector
```

Prediction files saved in `--out-dir` include the binary mask (`*_mask.png`) and the color ROI (`*_roi.png`) preserving original colours.

Commit message:

Add contour-based bounding-box inference

README.md, after:

# urp3_meshi

U-Net training and inference scripts for the **Conjunctival Images for Anemia Detection** dataset.

## Files
- `train.py`: command-line tool to train a stage-1 U-Net for conjunctival ROI segmentation.
- `inference_bbox.py`: predict conjunctival ROI and export bounding-box JSON.
- `datasets.py`: simple dataset loader for full-eye images and `_palpebral.png` masks.
- `unet.py`: lightweight U-Net model.

## Usage
### Train U-Net (stage-1)
```
python train.py \
    --img-root "Conjunctival Images for Anemia Detection" \
    --mask-root "Conjunctival Images for Anemia Detection" \
    --mask-suffix _palpebral \
    --out stage1.pt
```

### Inference and bounding-box extraction
```
python inference_bbox.py \
    --img-root "Conjunctival Images for Anemia Detection" \
    --ckpt stage1.pt \
    --out-dir preds_bbox
```

The script stores `<image>_bbox.json` files under the output directory, mirroring
the input folder structure. Each JSON contains the bounding box `[x1, y1, x2, y2]`
and its center point `[cx, cy]` suitable for SlimSAM.
